+++
title = "Working Title"
description = ""
keywords = [
]
categories = [
]
date = "2017-03-19T10:25:35-08:00"

+++

In the book "Nixonland: The Rise of a President and the Fracturing of America" by Rick Perlstein we learn that Dick Nixon understood that getting the smart popular kids to vote for you mattered very little. He called the popular kids "Franklins" and he called his kind the "Orthogonians".  Nixon learned being hated by the "Franklins" was no impediment to political success.

<!--more-->

> Franklins were well-rounded, graceful, moved smoothly, talked slickly. Nixon’s new club, the Orthogonians, was for the strivers, those not to the manner born, the commuter students like him. He persuaded his fellows that reveling in one’s unpolish was a nobility of its own. Franklins were never photographed save in black tie. Orthogonians wore shirtsleeves. “Beans, brains, and brawn” was their motto. He told them orthogonian—basically, “at right angles”—meant “upright,” “straight shooter.” Also, their enemies might have added, all elbows. 
>
> The Orthogonians’ base was among Whittier’s athletes. On the surface, jocks seem natural Franklins, the Big Men on Campus. But Nixon always had a gift for looking under social surfaces to see and exploit the subterranean truths that roiled underneath. It was an eminently Nixonian insight: that on every sports team there are only a couple of stars, and that if you want to win the loyalty of the team for yourself, the surest, if least glamorous, strategy is to concentrate on the nonspectacular—silent—majority. The ones who labor quietly, sometimes resentfully, in the quarterback’s shadow: the linemen, the guards, the punter. Nixon himself was exemplarily nonspectacular: the 150-pounder was the team’s tackle dummy, kept on squad by a loving, tough, and fatherly coach who appreciated Nixon’s unceasing grit and team spirit — nursing hurt players, cheering on the listless, even organizing his own team dinners, entertaining the guests on the piano, perhaps favoring them with the Orthogonian theme song. It was his own composition. 
>
> Nixon beat a Franklin for student body president. Looking back later, acquaintances marveled at the feat of this awkward, skinny kid the yearbook called “a rather quiet chap about campus,” dour and brooding, who couldn’t even win a girlfriend, who attracted enemies, who seemed, a schoolmate recalled, “the man least likely to succeed in politics.” They hadn’t learned what Nixon was learning. Being hated by the right people was no impediment to political success. The unpolished, after all, were everywhere...


Trump is now controlling the world by obtaining the votes of the unpolished.  He has used a similar playbook as Nixon: "less is more". Reach out to those who are:

- Less political
- Less educated
- Less suspicious of patently false claims (Mexico will pay for the wall)
- Less willing to do their research and homework (you mean my healthcare is Obama care?)
- Less tolerant of people of different races 
- Less tolerant of people of different religions
- Less tolerant of female leadership
- Less tolerant of "tree huggers"

How do you each these people? They no longer read the LA Times, the New York Times, or the Washing Post (many probably never did).  They no longer watch the evening news with Dan Rather.  Rather, they look up from Snapchat to see who got the rose on the Bachelor.  

Social media is how you reach these people.  The people who run the fake accounts and the bot farms where you can buy followers on Twitter, or likes on Facebook, are no longer selling fake persona, they are now **selling political influence**. Why buy fake followers on twitter when you can just tweet some questionable news and have thousands of retweets?  

We now know there are millions of fake accounts and highly active bots on all the social media platforms. Since many of these companies are valued by the number of accounts they have, or the number of accounts acquired, or "active users", they have little incentive to block the creation of fake accounts and activity bots. 

Italian security researchers Andrea Stroppa and Carlo De Micheli, in a report released in 2013, claimed that they found 20 million fake accounts for sale on Twitter. Jason Ding, a research scientist at Barracuda Labs, told NBC News that the number of Twitter accounts that were fake was "at least 10 percent, maybe more." Twitter, according to The Wall Street Journal, claimed in its Securities and Exchange Commission report that only 5 percent of its accounts were fake.

If I was a billionaire, and knew the Nixon playbook, could I buy enough social media exposure to reach out to the unpolished "Orthogonians" and win an election? The unpolished, after all, are everywhere...

Sources

* [Massive networks of fake accounts found on Twitter](http://www.bbc.com/news/technology-38724082)
* [1 in 10 Twitter accounts is fake, say researchers](http://www.nbcnews.com/business/1-10-twitter-accounts-fake-say-researchers-2D11655362)
